But let's talk a little bit about what we've done here.
We have an order form.
This will eventually will look nicer
once we have like all the pieces put together.
I want you to try and select a different type of pizza.
Doesn't work, right?
It broke the browser, which is actually kind of hard to do, right?
Like the browser works really well at creating these types of forms,
and whatever we did with React made it not work,
which seems kind of counterproductive, right?
Same thing with the pizza size.
Click on one of these other buttons.
No matter what, you're always going to be selecting small or large.
And that's annoying, right?
We expect the radio buttons to work so that you can select small, medium,
or large.
Well, reason with me of why this is happening.
All right.
So you have pepperoni here, right?
Which is the value here.
So that's why it's selecting that one.
Now I click Hawaiian, right?
If I click Hawaiian here, what happens?
React says, hey, an event happened.
The user did something.
It's time for us to re-render this component, right?
So it goes through, and it re-renders this component.
It says, oh, pizza type, pepperoni, right?
And so it sets the value to be pizza type, pepperoni.
So even though the user is clicking on something else,
it's immediately setting it back to where it was,
because this isn't dynamic, right?
This is just assigned, and then it just stays that way.
So we have to do some sort of assigning pizza type
to be something different,
or else it's just going to continually be that.
This is just a roundabout way of me explaining and showing to you
that two-way data binding is not free in React.
There are some other frameworks.
And famously, Angular 1, right,
was a big two-way data binding framework,
and that's just not true anymore.
We found that that's very fun to write and very bad to maintain,
because it becomes very black magic of,
like, where did this variable come from?
It's part of the magic of React is that it is verbose.
I'm not going to argue with you that it is not...
It could be shorter or more terse or something like that.
It's a little less fun to write,
and it's a lot more fun to maintain.
And as I've gone through my career,
I have found that that's actually worth its weight in gold, right?
I don't want to optimize for the couple of hours
I'm going to spend writing something.
I want to optimize for the hundreds of hours
I'm going to spend maintaining something.
Okay, so that's my spiel of why I think this is okay,
despite the fact that it is a little annoying.
Interesting if you go try something like Solid.js,
which is very similar to React in many ways.
They found a way to kind of make it work with something called signals.
I think signals are in Preact as well now.
I haven't worked in Preact in a long time.
But anyway, suffice to say,
other frameworks have different approaches to this,
but React takes a very straightforward, very...
I want to call it JavaScript-y,
that they're just kind of working with JavaScript
to make it work the way that JavaScript normally works,
as opposed to having black magic around the framework
to make it work differently.
So let's go make this work with state then, right?
We're going to use something called a hook,
and we're going to do this thing called import use state from React.
Anything that you see use in React,
the alarm should go off in your head, it's like, this is a hook.
Okay?
So instead of these two,
let's say const pizza type set pizza type
equals use state,
and then you give it the default first value, pepperoni.
Same thing with pizza size.
const pizza size set pizza size
equals use state,
and whatever you want the default to be.
We had it as medium, we'll just leave it as medium,
but you could change it to large if, I don't know,
you're trying to drive up your margins or something like that.
This is also, of course, on capitalism.
I don't know if I told you that, but...
All right.
So now we have this use state thing,
but this now makes pizza type able to be set to be something different.
It makes this React component stateful,
but we still have to call this set pizza type somewhere
so that we can change it.
So the way that we're going to do it is we're going to go on our select here.
By the way, these are just highlighted because they're not being used anywhere,
but we'll do that in just a second.
All right.
So I'm just going to put some space here so you can see what I'm writing.
We'll do something here called on change,
and the only thing we're going to do is we're going to say
E, which is like a normal browser event, right?
You could call this event.
Just for so many years of doing this, I just always call it E,
so that's really up to you.
And we're just going to give this anonymous function that says
set pizza type to be E.target.value.
So this is saying whenever a change event happens on select,
call this function.
This function takes in an event,
and it calls set pizza type with the target.value.
The target is going to be one of these options, right,
because that's what's actually going to be the,
well, I think the target is actually the select, not thinking about it,
but the value will change, right?
So the value will be whatever the option is,
so this value will be whatever the user has set,
and we'll call that with set pizza type,
which will then end up changing the pizza type up here,
which kicks off a re-render,
and now it's going to be correctly rendering the same thing.
So if we set this, size is still not going to work,
we haven't done that yet, but let's go try this one.
We should be able to set this to something else.
Congratulations, we un-broke it, right?
All right, so this is called a hook.
Some rules around Fight Club.
We don't talk about Fight Club.
Some rules around hooks.
You do talk about hooks, you can talk about hooks, that's fine.
They can never be inside of conditionals,
so never ever do something like this.
If something, right, then use state.
This is a big no-no because the one thing about hooks
is that they depend on being called in the same order every single time.
So if I did a conditional there,
then it would sometimes give them to me out of order,
so really what would happen is sometimes medium would show up in pizza type,
which is not what you want.
So, in other words, hooks never go inside of for loops,
while loops, do loops, they never go inside of conditionals,
they're just always top level.
Even if you don't use them, that's fine,
you just never put them in conditionals.
You never have to, so sometimes you ignore a hook and that's fine,
but you still have to call it in the same order every single time.
There's linting rules that will help you with that as well.
So why are they called hooks?
In my head canon of why this is, I've never asked anyone this,
this is just what occurs to me, is there's a hook
that gets called in the same order every single time,
so it's like a hook being picked up,
and they get picked up in the same order every single time
in these render functions.
Yep, hooks rely on strict ordering, we talked about that.
Oh yeah, some of you might be thinking,
this seems like a weird API, right?
It is kind of a weird API if you think about it,
I'm just so used to seeing it so frequently that, again,
I'm a frog that got boiled, right?
But it's just returning to you an array of two things,
the actual thing and then the setter for the actual thing, right?
That's just all that is, right?
So you could definitely say like const pizza hook equals use state, right?
And then you would say const pizza type equals pizza hook zero,
and then set pizza type, right?
This one line is the equivalent of these three lines,
but we're all very lazy and we all write it this way.
Use state is by far the most common one that you will use,
but I will show you a couple other hooks,
but just know that use state is by far the most common one.
Someone online is just asking if you could console log
just to show kind of the state changing.
Sure.
Type, pizza size.
All right.
Let's just trash this.
So you can see every time that a user event is happening here,
it's actually doing a re-render.
It's interesting that it is smart enough to know that events happening
in other parts of the DOM are not being observed,
and so it's not catching those events.
React has gotten a lot smarter over the years.
They used to have triggered a re-render and it doesn't anymore.
So let's go make it work with pizza size as well.
So with pizza size, there's a couple different ways to do this.
I'll show you the lazy way that the linter will complain about.
Event bubbling still works in React as well.
So in theory, you can actually do it this way.
Equals same thing, E set pizza size to be E.target.value.
And then this will start working, right,
we have one event listener on the parent element, right,
and so it's listening for just the one time.
React doesn't like this because it views it as inaccessible,
which generally you don't want change handlers on like divs
because screen readers and all that kind of stuff can't access divs,
they access inputs, right.
I think in this particular case it wouldn't matter
because it's still bubbling the event no matter what,
and so you can have a change event on a input and it'll still work.
But let's just appease the linting gods
and we're going to put this on all the individual inputs.
It's more explicit as well, so we're just going to put this
three different times on all of these.
Now you might say like, well, do I need E.target.value
or should I do S here like this?
Tomato, tomato, same thing.
Because the value is coming from here, right.
But in both cases it works.